The Whispered World
###################
:date: 2011-09-05 18:22
:author: mrwonko
:category: Videogames
:tags: Videogames, The Whispered World
:type: blog
:slug: the-whispered-world
:summary: I've finished the whispered world - and I'm moved. Read my thoughts on its ending - if you don't mind spoilers. Otherwise, there's still a little review for you at the beginning.

One of the many (well, not that many) games I picked up during the Steam
Summer Sale is The Whispered World. It's also one of the few (well, not
that few) games that I actually finished.

I'd like to share my thoughts on its ending, but I'll begin with a
spoiler free general review to help those that haven't played it yet
decide whether they should do so first or read on.

The Whispered World is a Point & Click adventure. It's got beautifully
drawn 2D scenes, interesting characters and good music and voice acting
- at least in the German version. I usually play games in English, but
The Whispered World is a German game and I figured I should thus play it
in German.

The riddles, on the other hand, are occasionally not that good. The most
important lesson I learned is: Always try closing the door. The game
hides important things behind opened doors way too often. But even
though I looked at a walkthrough multiple times - or maybe because of
that - I enjoyed the game.

The thing I probably liked most and will henceforth discuss is the
story. I guess you need a certain maturity to be able to appreciate it -
I don't really think The Whispered World is a game for children.

So let's talk about the story.

**Spoilers begin here.**

In The Whispered World you guide the clown Sadwick through a beautiful
world and get to know interesting characters. Early on you are
prophesied to destroy that world.

A prophecy that is bound to be fulfilled. You're on your way to the
king, trying to save him. When you're almost there, you cause the world
to start falling apart. To stop it, you freeze time. Successfully.

But nobody ages any more. Nothing changes any more. And there's The Evil
Guy. He planned an invasion of the king's realm. Change hurts him. With
time frozen, he's god. Or pretty damn powerful, anyway. So you've kept
the world from being destroyed at the price of The Evil Guy ruling...
forever. You decide to unfreeze time and risk the world's destruction
for a chance to save the king, hoping he can stop this.

But once you reach the king's room, it's empty. The only notable thing
is a mirror. Looking at it, you see a little boy. He pulls you through
the mirror. You're now between two such mirrors - one to the world you
came from, the other to a hospital where the boy - Sadwick, you! - is
lying in a bed, in coma. The whole world has just been a dream, based on
a story your father read to you. (Hence the name.)

The boy urges you to return to the "real" world. You're given the choice
to stay in your dream world which you know and love or leave it.
(Apparently you're not actually free to choose, but I chose "correctly"
so I didn't notice.)

Which, I realized, is just a metaphor for you playing the game. Which is
brilliant.

You've visited this beautiful world, full of interesting characters, but
now you've reached your destination and the game asks you to turn it
off. You could stay in the game and keep things the way they were, but
you know it's wrong. There's nothing for you in that world any more.

And it was bound to happen this way. By playing the game, you inevitably
got closer to its end, the destruction of the wonderful world you
visited. The story is over.

It's very effective. By (seemingly) offering you the choice to leave or
to stay, it makes you think back to this wonderful world you've been in.
I didn't want to leave. I liked that world. But I knew it was the right
thing to do. It still made me sad. I wept. I'm not even entirely sure
why, but I was deeply moved.

It may have made me question video games/my lifestyle... I'm not quite
sure. Is spending time browsing the internet and playing games not
somewhat equivalent to living in a dream world? Am I in some sort of
coma, missing out on the real world? I don't really want to think about
it.

But I agree that change is necessary. I should program more. Release
some games. Advance. Waste less time.

It's a great achievement for The Whispered World to provoke such
thoughts. I don't think it'll supersede Psychonauts as my favorite game,
but it certainly has one of the best endings I've seen so far - in my
opinion. I'm sure not everybody experiences it this way.

I'm glad I played it.

- Willi
