Doing nothing
#############
:date: 2012-03-25 14:14
:author: mrwonko
:category: Mixed
:tags: Blender, Jedi Academy, Programming, University, Videogames, Mass Effect
:type: blog
:slug: doing-nothing
:summary: I talk about the last few months during which I played a lot of games, including Mass Effect 3, and didn't do much else... until I did.

I've been quite lazy recently, I didn't even write any blog posts. What
happened?

University lectures went on until mid-January, followed by exams at the
the end of January/beginning of February. Even the harder exams turned
out surprisingly good, with my worst mark being 2.3 (or B-, I suppose).

And after that? Nothing. Holidays. Well, I did finally finish some of my
games, like Assassin's Creed 2 and Brotherhood, Sam & Max Season 3,
Damnation, Bastion and Alice: Madness Returns. I also finished replaying
Mass Effect 2 (I had lost my savegames) and got Mass Effect 3 on
release.

Mass Effect 3 was an interesting experience. Awesome for the most part,
but like many others I find the ending to be a huge letdown. Barely
influenced by your decisions, a Deus Ex Machina and unanswered questions
- here's hoping Bioware's going to change that, a lot of fans stating
their dissatisfaction might help. Still, it gets the full 5/5 from me.
(I recommend playing the predecessors first though. It'd be like
watching only the 3rd Lord of the Rings (but switching to something else
at the end) otherwise.)

I also got a job, which will formally start in April. Delivering
croques. I rather like it so far, I can use the car driving experience
and I also make money, which is pretty nice. And a little more than I
need for university, too. So I'll be able to buy some nice things.

I'll probably get some new hardware soon, in some games my CPU doesn't
quite cut it anymore but new ones for socket 775 have gotten hard to
come by, so I'll probably upgrade all the essentials in a couple of
months or so.

Another thing I now have the money for is a Kinect. Why would I want a
Kinect? I don't even have an Xbox! Well, it's just an idea I've recently
had. I'd like to experiment with Motion Capture using the Kinect (since
that seems like the cheapest way). More specificially, I was thinking
about doing Jedi Academy cutscenes with motion capture. The animations
really helped Devil May Cry 3's cutscenes and I was fantasizing about
getting a similar level of quality in the Jedi Academy SP mod I'm
working on.

Of course, in order to get MoCap animations into Jedi Academy I need to
be able to get any animation at all into Jedi Academy. I can't afford
3DS Max, I won't pirate it and I don't want to learn XSI Mod Tools, I'd
much rather stick to Blender.

So I'm sticking to Blender. I already started working on a Ghoul 2 (Jedi
Academy's model/animation format) `plugin for
Blender <https://github.com/mrwonko/Blender-2.6-Ghoul-2-addon>`__\ a
couple of months ago but had only finished the importers. Well, my MoCap
thoughts made me come back to it and I spent the last 2 days or so
writing the animation exporter. It is now done.

The only remaining missing part is now the export of models. That's more
complicated than animations though, I don't really feel like doing that
right now. But that's how I often feel about something until I start
working on it, at which point I actually really like it.

The second semester will start in about two and a half weeks - I could
probably finish the .glm model exporter until then, let's see if I will.

So long,

Willi
