Portal 2, lost Yah, potatoes and Ludum Dare
###########################################
:date: 2011-05-04 21:52
:author: mrwonko
:category: Mixed
:tags: Programming, School, Videogames, Portal 2, Ludum Dare, Hat
:slug: portal-2-lost-yah-potatoes-and-ludum-dare

I seem to not have written a blog post for a while. That's probably
because I started tweeting small updates I don't deem worthy of a blog
post, thus preventing them from accumulating so they're eventually worth
one.

So here's what happened recently:

Exactly 4 weeks ago I left my hat in the train, a lovely Stetson I got
last birthday, I believe it's the "Yah" model. Since that happens rather
frequently you can report losses online and hope the train people come
back to you. But they didn't. And after 4 weeks they stop looking. So
all hope is gone. I will miss you, my beloved hat. (If you happen to
have found my hat and read this, please contact me. Ah, who am I
kidding?)

[caption id="attachment\_141" align="aligncenter" width="300"
caption="My beloved hat and me in Amsterdam last
fall."]\ |image0|\ [/caption]

So I'd like to have a new hat. They're useful against the sun, rain and
bad looks. Might just get the same model again since I liked it. It's
somewhat expensive though, 70â‚¬, so the sun may need to bother me a bit
more before I bring myself to buy one.

On the other hand I did get some games for free recently, so I should
have some money, right? Preceding the release of Portal 2 was an
Alternate Reality Game, the Potato ARG. You can read about it in more
depth on `its wiki <http://valvearg.com/wiki/>`__, but here's the short
version:

Starting on April 1st 13 indie games got a "PotatoFoolsDay" update which
in most cases added potatoes to the games in some way or another. Those
13 games were then discounted and sold in a bundle, the "Potato Sack".
It also turned out that there were hidden clues/riddles in the games,
with later updates adding more, in some cases eventually even adding new
Portal 2-related levels. By solving the riddles and accomplishing tasks,
players could earn potatoes for their steam profile, 36 in total.

Once the riddling was on I got interested and wanted to have a look -
and it contained many nice games like Amnesia and Killing Floor (which I
already played when it was still a mod) - so I bought the Potato Sack.
And I started collecting potatoes. All 36.

Eventually the best ARG solvers were invited to visit Valve, play Portal
2 early and take part in the launch event, and Portal 2 was released a
couple of hours early as the result of the ARG being solved. Have I
mentioned that I love Valve? I love Valve. That was not of particular
interest to me though because I was still waiting for further
information on the Razer Hydra/Portal 2 bundle (which by now has been
released - the information that is, the bundle is due in June or
something), not wanting to buy Portal 2 without the bundle if it should
indeed contain the full version of Portal 2. (It will!)

Another ARG related thing has had far more impact on me: Valve gave
Valve Complete Packs to everybody who earned all 36 potatoes. That's
every Valve game there is! Including Portal 2! So that's how I got
Portal 2. (And CS, DoD(S) and some others I'm not very interested in. I
had pretty much every *released* Valve game of interest to me already.)

So what do I think about Portal 2? I think Notch pretty much nailed it
`in his
review <http://notch.tumblr.com/post/4771278428/portal-2-review>`__ when
he wrote: "Play it."

I also finally coded some more. Last weekend was `Ludum
Dare <http://www.ludumdare.com/compo/>`__ 20, a make-a-game-in-48h
competition, and I made a game. This time the theme was "It's dangerous
to go alone! Take this!", and `this is my
entry <http://www.ludumdare.com/compo/ludum-dare-20/?action=rate&uid=3631>`__.
I'm not going to win anything with that, especially since there are over
200 entries - some most likely better than mine, though I haven't played
any so far - and no prizes, but it's nice to be able to add another game
to my portfolio. A somewhat buggy game though, it has terrible memory
leaks. I'll have to fix those one day. Soon, preferably. Especially
since only some of them are in the game code, while at least one is in
my framework/engine, which is to be used on many more games to come, so
it better be flawless.

Well, I think that's about it for now.

So long,

Willi

.. |image0| image:: http://www.mrwonko.de/blog/wp-content/uploads/Klassenfahrt_Amsterdam-027-300x224.jpg
   :target: http://www.mrwonko.de/blog/wp-content/uploads/Klassenfahrt_Amsterdam-027.jpg
