A MAZEing!
##########
:date: 2013-10-01 12:37
:author: mrwonko
:category: Videogames
:tags: Videogames, A MAZE, Berlin, Luftrausers, Samurai Gunn, Sos, Stille Tänzer, Vlambeer
:type: blog
:slug: a-mazeing
:summary: My experiences at A MAZE. Indie Connect in Berlin in April.

|The venue where A MAZE took place|

I went to Berlin for the first time in my life this April. The reason?
`A MAZE. Indie Connect <http://www.amaze-indieconnect.de/>`__, a small
indie developer conference. Turns out there's a cheap bus from Hamburg
to Berlin and a cheap hostel close to the venue (the Industriepalast
Hostel, which was quite nice), so it wasn't particularly expensive
either. In fact it was quite worthwhile. As was the smartphone I finally
got for the occasion, an Xperia U. Not overly powerful, but it has
served me well so far.

|I did better than I do on my phone|

There were a lot of talks during the day and many games were on
exhibition. I met `Sos <http://sos.gd/>`__ of McPixel fame, JW and Rami
from `Vlambeer <http://vlambeer.com/>`__ and lots of other nice folks. I
got to player C64nabalt, a Canabalt Demake for the C64 (my first
encounter with the system), Vlambeer's Luftrausers and many other games,
but two games left a bigger impression than the rest.

The first one was played during the Local Multiplayer Picnic we had one
evening: `Samurai Gunn <http://maxistentialism.com/samuraigunn/>`__.
It's still in development but even in its unfinished state it was
already a lot of fun. Didn't even feel unfinished. You're a samurai with
a sword and a gun with 3 shots. 1 hit kills. Fast paced 2D platforming
deathmatch with an awesome showdown in case of a draw. Lots of fun.

The other game was an experimental project by a couple of students:
Stille Tänzer. The idea? Get a couple of people together, give 'em
Headphones, play music to them and let them dance. Then, unbeknownst to
everyone else, turn off somebody's music. If someone rightly accuses you
of having no music, you're out, otherwise they're out. It was somewhat
lacking in feedback, but the general idea is great. They had a pretty
elaborate setup with multiple wireless headphones and a DJ; Hardware
instead of software, basically. But thinking about it I realized it
would be a perfect fit for smartphones: They're very common - unlike
wireless headphone and hardware to control multiple of them
independently - and they have WiFi and audio-out jacks, so given an
appropriate app a lot could be automated. I may look into this once I'm
done with my other current projects, of which there are many.

Willi

.. |The venue where A MAZE took place| image:: {filename}DSC_0004_sm-300x168.jpg
   :target: {filename}DSC_0004_sm.jpg
.. |I did better than I do on my phone| image:: {filename}DSC_0037_sm-300x168.jpg
   :target: {filename}DSC_0037_sm.jpg
