Exams: Done.
############
:date: 2014-03-01 11:16
:author: mrwonko
:category: Mixed
:tags: Projects, University, Videogames
:type: blog
:slug: exams-done
:summary: Exams are over. Now what's next?

My exams went pretty smoothly, as far as I can tell. They're not all
graded yet. How much I learned for them varied quite a bit, but in total
it was probably above average for me. It helps that I'm good at making
out high value targets: What's easily learned that will score me many
points?

Still, I did not learn as much as I had originally planned. I did keep
up the Cello practice and learning Russian though. I can find roughly a
quarter of the Cyrillic keys on the keyboard now. And my sleep patterns
are mostly as planned as well.

Now I have almost 6 weeks until the next semester's lectures start. I'll
miss the first 3 days of those due to `A MAZE
Berlin <http://amaze-indieconnect.de/>`__, which I'm going to visit once
again. Maybe I should program a small game to show there? Which brings
me to how I'm going to spend the coming weeks.

First and foremost I have 3 university projects I need to do: A Delphi
port of a board game (which looks interesting algorithmically), a
database web interface with GWT (which I don't think I'll find
particularly enjoyable or satisfactory) and preparing a talk on Reverse
Engineering (which is something I'm interested in, that's why I chose
that topic for my talk). They pretty much all need to be done by April.

The talk isÂ  related to an old project: Over a year ago I started
reverse engineering FlatOut 2's level format. I didn't finish that, but
that's something I'm still very interested in. I'd love to have a level
editor for FlatOut 2, so I may try creating one. I probably legally have
to, actually, since to my knowledge Reverse Engineering is illegal in
Germany unless it's for interoperability that can't be achieved
otherwise.

Another project I'd like to do is related to my admiration for the
Millennium Falcon. And spaceships in general. I'd love a multiplayer
space ship game where you and your friends walk around a small spaceship
(like the Falcon, but Disney wouldn't like that), pilot it and man the
turrets, possibly do repairs etc. Originally I had thought of the ships
in The Matrix when I conceived this project (inspired by Enter The
Matrix), but then I remembered I love Star Wars. But I actually can't
use either of those franchises without fear of legal trouble.

I find that interesting in terms of gameplay, but also and especially
graphically. I've been thinking about a lot of graphics effects lately.
I want to write a deferred renderer, I want to implement light rays and
normal maps and so on. And I wonder just how detailed a spaceship
today's computers could render.

Well, that's a mighty big project. The upside is that if I keep
practicing modelling throughout the whole project I might actually be
able to create as cool a space ship as I want by the end. But that's
just me dreaming. Shouldn't I finish Spirits of the Sith, that Jedi
Academy SP mod, first? Probably.

Well, let's get back to the near term. In the coming 2 weeks I want to
work on the uni projects - I should be able to finish that web interface
and probably the board game as well. If I actually work on them. Here's
hoping.

So long,

Willi
