A MAZE 2014
###########
:date: 2014-04-13 09:17
:author: mrwonko
:category: Mixed
:tags: Job, Spirits of the Sith, Videogames, Major Bueno, Vlambeer
:slug: a-maze-2014

Hey everybody!

I really want to talk about the last couple of days, but first I'll talk
about the week before, just for the record. It began with the finals of
the `DotaCinema <http://www.dotacinema.com/>`__ Captain's Draft
tournament in Dota 2, where teams had to play less common heroes, which
led to some very interesting games. I bought tickets for that so I could
watch it in the ingame client and I'm quite happy with my purchase.

Later I visited the `InnoGames <http://www.innogames.com/>`__
headquarters again - this time to get a tour of the offices themselves.
In general it seems like a nice place to work, with the possible
exception of the work itself. I don't know if I want to do
mobile/browser games... They are small though, so you experience a full
project in less time. I'll take a look at some other studios in the
coming weeks before I decide on where to do my internship and Bachelor
thesis.

Then I finally got around to working some more on the second uni
assignment for the holidays where I am to create a web interface using
the Google Web Toolkit together with another student. After a bit of
struggle I figured out how to properly persist objects in a database and
now it's just a matter of creating all the necessary pages.

Earlier this week I finished my other uni assignment, a boardgame port
in Delphi. Documentation took a little longer than anticipated, but
that's the way it usually is with just about everything. I still
finished in time. And then came Wednesday.

It's that time of the year again: Time for `A
MAZE <http://amaze-berlin.de/>`__. This year it dropped the "Indie
Connect" from its title, but that's still what it's about; Indie
developers meeting up and connecting. So once again I found myself on
the 3.5h bus ride to Berlin. I did better research than last year and
took the bus that put me within walking distance of my hostel, straight
to the Ostbahnhof, instead of the ZOB on the other end of Berlin like
last year.

Some things have changed since last year - notably I have a Tablet and a
Nintendo 3DS now. I bought the latter last summer to see what all the
fuzz regarding Animal Crossing: New Leaf was all about, and shortly
thereafter got Legend of Zelda - Ocarina of Time 3D as a birthday
present. But I hardly played it since, only just reaching the first
dungeon. So I used the bus ride to play some more; I got past the
dungeon and met two faeries.

But let's talk about A MAZE. I first went there last year and met many
nice people, like Jana and Friedrich from `Rat
King <http://ratking.de/>`__, `Sos Sosowski <http://sos.gd/>`__, `Terry
Cavanagh <http://distractionware.com>`__ and Rami Ismail and Jan Willem
Nijman of `Vlambeer <http://vlambeer.com>`__. It was great to see most
of them again - Terry and Rami weren't there, but most others were. Sos
is still as crazy as ever, I love that guy.

I also met a lot new people, which is great. I got to talk to `Henry
Smith <http://www.sleepingbeastgames.com/>`__, whose game Spaceteam won
the A MAZE Award last year. He's been in AAA at Irrational and Bioware
before going Indie and shared some of his experiences; He thinks working
in the industry is a great experience, I'd just like to avoid the
contract clause which kept him from working on private projects in his
spare time - it's apparently pretty commonplace, but surely you can do
some negotiating when a developer wants you to work for them.

I also met Marius Winter of `Major
Bueno <http://www.majorbueno.com/>`__, who I had wanted to talk to about
his experience at Double Fine for a while, so that was great, too. But
there was one utterly surprising meeting: I wear a "Hello, my name is
Willi/mrwonko" sticker, and somebody asked me about that. The guy was
called Robin and turned out to be a member of Killermic's startup,
`Klonk Games <http://klonk-games.com/>`__. I know Killermic from my Jedi
Academy modding days - we were both part of the 3D-GET modding team,
where we worked on Spirits of the Sith for Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy.
Robin reminded me that we really need to finish that, and I agree. It's
about 80% done, and I can probably do 90% of the remaining 20% myself.

But A MAZE is not just about meeting cool people, there are also lots of
talks. I went to all of them, which was a great idea - sometimes you
don't know a talk interests you until you hear it. For example I didn't
know `Tale of Tales <http://www.tale-of-tales.com/>`__ were so
interesting, but now I really want to look into their games. I had heard
of them before, but never cared to investigate them. Not all talks were
surprises - I had imagined Sos' talk to be positively insane and got
exactly that; he talked about how A MAZE helped him find the motivation
to finish McPixel and did it in his unique Sos way. The talks were
filmed and should be available online soon.

Part of A MAZE is also the exhibition. I saw the
`Choosatron <http://choosatron.com>`__ which I had never heard of
before, but using a receipt printer as a console output is ingenious,
and I got to play a round of `Nidhogg <http://www.nidhogggame.com/>`__,
which wasn't quite enough to learn about its nuances but sure was fun.
And I had no idea watching somebody play `The Stanley
Parable <http://www.stanleyparable.com/>`__ for the first time would be
quite as awesome. (She got the confusion ending first, and then played
it "properly.")

And lastly, A MAZE fills the evenings with parties. I don't usually
partake in that kind of activity, but since I'm around anyway A MAZE is
the one yearly exception. 3 evenings of dancing are fairly exhausting,
so by Friday my feet were killing me and my arms didn't like to be
raised anymore, but
`Kozilek <http://havingfunwithrecords.com/kozilek/>`__ still managed to
get me to dance. I had only just learned of him through Luftrausers, but
the music didn't quite compare - it was less chip and more bass. Well,
the speakers probably played a big part in that - most music will sound
more impressive with big, loud speakes.

My personal highlight as far as music goes was on Thursday. Just like
with games, it's nice to see the face(s) behind the music you hear, and
I had no idea `Chipzel <http://chipzel.co.uk/>`__ is a gal. I didn't
realize she actually makes her music with a Gameboy, either. And I
certainly didn't know she's so full of energy, jumping and dancing on
stage and loving what she does. Maybe I should go to parties and
concerts more often, it's great to be around happy people.

In general meeting people every now and then is nice. I learned about
two other places where I could do so: There's `Game
City <http://gamecity.org>`__ in England and `Poznań Game
Arena <http://www.gamearena.pl/pl/>`__ including the ZTG Game Developers
Convention in Poland, two countries I'd very much like to visit. I've
been to England before, but that was with family and friends and I
didn't get to experience much of the country. Maybe I should take a walk
with Ed Key or something...

On Saturday, after A MAZE was over, I met Florian Zender from
`YAGER <http://yager.de/>`__, a AAA studio in Berlin, and had a nice
chat with him over a coffee/hot chocolate. We talked about a great many
things more or less related to game development and had a good time. I'm
happy to have met him, the time I'm spending contacting people from the
games industry is paying off.

So that's been my trip to Berlin. Now I'm sitting in the bus back to
Hamburg, writing this blog entry. Exhausted, but happy. I missed the
first 3 days of university due to the trip, but it's been worth it.

In the next two weeks I'll be fairly busy with uni work, I have three or
four assignments now. I'm also going to continue my networking
endeavors, I'd love to talk to somebody from `Rockfish
Games <http://rockfishgames.wordpress.com/>`__.

And I also just found out I enjoy audio books; they're somewhat more
convenient than regular books since you can close your tired eyes while
consuming them in bed.

| So long,
|  Willi
