Title: Catching up: September 2015
author: mrwonko
date: 2016-04-06 22:45
tags: University, Job, Programming
category: Mixed
type: blog
summary: It's been a busy/lazy couple of months as I once again did not write a blog post in forever. Let's recap one month at a time so it stays manageable, starting with September 2015.

Yes, I have once again put off writing another blog post for 7 months. I'm horrible. Let's catch up, starting with September. It's actually pretty interesting to reconstruct your history like this; I have a vague idea of what happened, but for the details it is quite useful to go through old mails (sent & received) and my GitHub profile.

I had put off applying for a job because obviously writing my thesis was more urgent, after all that had a deadline! For the record: Don't do that. Applications take a while, especially good ones. Even more so if you spend forever on programming challenges which can't possibly be that hard, like I did.

One of the studios I was (and am) interested in is the Paradox Development Studio since they use their own engine and I imagine I'd like low level C++ coding. They have [a kattis challenge](https://paradox.kattis.com) you need to solve; when I first looked into it in early September you had to solve two out of three challenges. [Number one](https://paradox.kattis.com/problems/pizza) was pretty easy, although getting it to execute fast enough took some thinking.

The time constraints turned out to be the problem for the other challenges as well. I ended up writing an [integer linear programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integer_programming) solver for the [second challenge](https://paradox.kattis.com/problems/ecoins) - initially in Haskell, then when that was too slow I rewrote it in C++. I still couldn't figure out how to make it fast enough. Same story with the [third challenge](https://paradox.kattis.com/problems/boom).

Meanwhile I defended my thesis and got my degree by mid-September. I didn't actually send out any applications prior to that since I wanted to include the degree, but shortly afterwards I applied for an internship at YAGER, which does not require solving any coding challenges first and was thus very straightforward. The month ended before I heard back from them and I did not send out any further applications before October, which my next post will cover.

So that was September, wherein I obsessed over kattis challenges way more than I probably should have.
